hello and welcome to the book channel
the place to be for all book lovers and
writers I'll be interviewing three
authors on each program about their
books and will have great advice from
our experts should you have a burning
desire to write or you think you have a
book inside you and remember everything
we do on the show will be on the website
the book channel dot TV on the program
today I'll be talking to property
magician
Simon such I gots a number one prophecy
book number one business book and on one
personal finance book so long to mind
out there for it I hope the second book
will do just as well to the king of
online networking William boost by
asking questions that encourage more
conversation rather than close it down
you learn more about each other and and
and that helps build the relationship
which is one of the things that
networking is all about and two Oreo
Blanche about her lovely book for
children is Magic sunglasses Samantha we
love you you're the greatest of fans
screamed and our expert today will be
Mindy Gibbons Klein the book Midwife I
know you really want to write that book
so what's stopping you
my first guest today is Simon Sachi
we're talking about his book property
magic hi Simon
welcome to the show now this is the
second edition of your book isn't it so
apart from the first edition having been
a best-seller what prompted you to
rewrite it well I think the first one
did very well because most people in the
UK want to learn about property and once
were in their own property and that's
what we teach people had to do um but
the property market changes and it's
very dynamic particularly the moments so
it's very important to make sure people
get up-to-date information because what
we do now might be different for 2012
months ago so if I important to keep
current okay and so tell me about the
bestseller fan with the first edition I
think you achieved something pretty good
on Amazon well we got to number one
property book number one business book
and I want personal finance folks so I
learned to mind out there for it I hope
the second book will do just as well
pretty good achievement so there's lots
of myths out there around property
investing how does your book debunk
those myths on the biggest things that
the people don't buy properties they
think they need a large amounts of money
to say I can't afford to buy property
laughter the way we teach people to buy
property is if you do it the right way
you don't actually need to have a
deposit and the way we do that is by
buying well below the market value and
use some creative finance so you don't
actually have any money to buy so I mean
anybody can do it
so this below market value thing then
what's what's that all about well there
are people who need to sell the houses
quickly and it's people who they
actually rather sell quickly rather than
get the full value for their property
and as long as you do it ethically so
you make sure it's a good solution for
them and a good solution for you and it
means you can buy without having to put
much very money in at all okay one of
the chapters in your book talks about
buying property ethically can you
explain that a bit further because I
think there's a lot of remembering
misconceptions around in particularly
with companies that do come in and buy
below market values that somehow they're
kind of you know ripping people off yeah
absolutely I mean I think there's some
it's very important that you understand
that there are I mean any age do you get
people who are coming under unethically
whereas what I like to do when I look at
buy a property why I teach other people
how to do it it's all about finding out
what's really important to the seller
now these are people who for whatever
reason they have to sell quickly for
example someone might be about to get
repossessed whereas actually what we
could do is we can come in we could
clear the arrears we clear the mortgage
or any other debt they have and they can
actually walk away without any debt
without any problems and we get an
ethical solution they get an ethical
session and everyone's happy and
sometimes they actually can stay in the
property so that's what we call a rent
back yes and so in the right
circumstances they can stay for as long
as they want as long as they pay the
market rent okay now you have five
golden rules in your book don't you I do
yeah tell us about that well tell us
each rule and photos a bit about each
rule if you're investing property I
think there are five golden rules the
first one is you should always buy below
market value if you buy below market
value means you're making profit on the
day you buy and also when the market is
coming down it gives you a bit of a
buffer in case valleys come down further
so in a good market you might be buying
ten to fifteen percent below market
value in a market where their families
are going down you want to bring twenty
to forty percent below market value
which is achievable if you know how to
find the right motivated sellers so
that's a first rule always buy below
market value the next rule is the
discount alone isn't enough it's got to
be a property which we call stack up so
it's got to make cash for you so in
other words the profits that you make is
enough so that the rent that comes in
it's enough to cover all of the expenses
such as interest on mortgages and
management fees etc such that this
profit left over at the end of each
month for you that's why we invest in
property to get a return so you've got
to make sure there's good cash flow and
the property spanks up in order to
achieve that the third golden rule is
approaches gotta be in there that's
going to have good long-term rental
demand because the idea of an investment
property is that you don't have to pay
the mortgage the tenants you have in the
property are actually covering the cost
of the ownership for you so you've got
to have a good strong rental demand the
fourth rule is you need to buy for long
term property investment is not a
get-rich-quick scheme it's get rich very
very slowly scheme and the idea is you
buy the property and you're holding it
for the long term growth and in the
meantime someone else is paying for the
cost of holding that property and the
fifth rule which I think is very
important is I believe everyone who's
investing in property
needs to have a cache buffer because the
people who you see struggling investors
who do get into difficulty are ones who
buy they've got no money they've got no
assets behind them and if they have any
problems such as bad tenants or repairs
on the property they've not got the
money to cover it and so they get into
difficulty so you always need to make
sure you minimize the risk and have a
cash buffer available so if you're
investing in properties then would you
need to have that cash buffer to start
with before because you talk about
putting no money down so you can buy it
without actually paying out a deposit no
example yeah so do you but you need to
have the cash buffer there to start with
yeah the cash buffer could be could be
access to funds in another pot acquit
jordão facility it could be some actual
physical money in the bank or it could
be even be a credit card but you would
have something to go to cover just in
case you have difficulty so when you
normally buy a property as an own home
you might put ten or fifteen percent in
as a deposit as an investment it's
somewhere between fifteen and twenty
five percent depending on the market at
the time so that's a substantial amount
of cash normally for the deposit so you
can buy without a deposit but I think
you do need a little bit or access to
some to make sure you cover any
potential risks okay
Simon that's fantastic I think we could
probably talk about this for hours
because it's a fascinating subjects and
it's obviously an awful lot in your book
but thank you very much for coming in
today
good luck I hope it is very well for you
remember all of the advice that we give
on the show and the author interviews
are available after the show on the
website the book Channel dot T